for the majority of investors stocks and
bonds are the two main options for
storing savings as a result we need to
look at them to track their performance
to judge the outcome notice that stocks
and bonds together dwarf many other
sectors and swings in these markets have
a huge ripple effect you came here for
the truth so let me unveil that for you
let's talk about stocks and bonds today
and their performance I want to know the
fact that while I don't personally have
stocks or bonds myself not very much
into the paper assets at this time I
believe it's dangerous I believe
everybody should look into their
performance consistently we always need
to monitor every sector doesn't matter
if i'm not interested in it i still need
to monitor it that's gaining knowledge
that's very important so let's begin
right here with this chart when the blue
line rises is we need to know when the
blue line Rises stocks are outperforming
bonds and vice versa looking at
government bonds basically this chart
shows stock market versus bonds all
right so starting with an index of a
hundred back in the 90s you could see
the fluctuations clearly calm boom
stocks really outperform bonds then you
look at towards today's timing here and
it seems to be once again approaching
that and then you have the financial
crisis obviously around the same levels
and how many times do I keep bringing
this up where we keep hitting back to
the financial crisis levels different
indicators not just this I mean this
doesn't really say that it's overvalued
it just says that it's you know
outperforming bonds basically so what I
would suggest with this is to take it
for what it is and understand that at
this time stocks are outperforming bonds
but what has happened since 1980 in the
markets what has happened what's been a
very very
the important note what was an important
change that took place something that
was you know an all-time record let's
move on to this and i'll talk about it
while the rising stock to bonds ratio
isn't that all surprising especially in
a bull market the recent acceleration is
not commonplace over the last two
quarters stocks have outperformed bonds
by thirty one percent that's pretty
significant which is the highest levels
of 2011 only in 99 that stocks
outperform bonds by a wider margin as i
mentioned before what i want to note is
that in nineteen eighty doesn't show you
here on this chart but in nineteen
eighty what do we have was an increase
in interest rates a dramatic increase
but ever since then interest rates have
been declining and when you compare
interest rates to the stock market price
you start to get a different picture you
start to really understand oh that makes
a little bit more sense right now you
can plot that show you more in a moment
in this article basically what they say
is why we can't possibly predict the
performance of either stocks or bonds
what we can compare the confidently
deduce is that further stock strength
relative to bonds is unlikely over the
coming months I don't know what's going
to happen personally in this regard but
that's what they're suggesting and
they're doing that based on technical
analysis remember that United States
30-year bond yield okay look at what has
happened I mean you want consistency
look at this since 1980 it's a gentle
and beautiful slope downward okay right
now you're getting three percent do you
buy a 30-year bond you get three percent
even wore in the insider buffett said
what a stupid idea to buy a 30-year bond
when you're only going to get three
percent right now at this time why
because the value of it is
that's what it's worth basically worth
noting 30-year bond three percent return
a lot of people would not be happy about
that I assure you but what's significant
about this once again is that the
interest rates since then have declined
yes there's been a small increase in the
with what the Fed has done and others
but what's important to note here is
that yes over the past few decades there
has been at the clients let's move on
quickly to this stock performance
against bonds in the long run now we're
talking to a long long run since 1800
okay I just want to know something just
to give you some historical significance
here starting at one dollar and what has
happened ever since you compare that
along with the CPI what we have stock or
inflation-adjusted but regardless you
can see that the performance versus
bonds has been obviously different where
bonds is more let's say just over 10,000
stocks would be somewhere around 1
million 10 million so there's a big
divergence in between these two socks
giving obviously a rockier road along
the way I would definitely say that all
i wanted to mention with this was that
if you compare for example the Bitcoin
market okay if the Bitcoin market losses
fifty percent it doesn't send
necessarily that same shock wave
throughout the system as let's say the
SMP dropping by fifty percent a lot of
people are going to be losing their jobs
overnight you know industries change and
infects everything imports and exports
it all the way down the line think of
that ripple effect right commodities
exporting nations start suffering as a
result you need to understand that the
size of the market is very important
when you see drops so if the like I said
smps dropping by ten percent in a day it
makes a much bigger difference in the
ripple effect compared to something like
Bitcoin and then you compared to even
gold or silver where these two markets
are very very
small particularly when you look at the
physical metals themselves obviously a
lot of it is a paper garbage but when
you look at the physical markets it's a
big difference big change so that's
something to keep in mind when you are
trying to analyze these markets and
these charts take it for what it is if
you found this video informative please
give me a thumbs up last but not least
if you found the video informative i
know you will find my books the money
gps and global economic collapse my new
book my new release even more
informative you can actually flip
through these books go over there to
amazon there's a link in the description
if you go there it actually lets you
flip through the book so that you can
see if you like it for yourself take
care